README.md, before:

# Webcam-based Security Camera
A basic security camera program using cheap webcams and opencv. Currently this camera will:
1. Save an image to the directory specified in the SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR environment variable once every 5 minutes.
2. Save an image to SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR when the program ends.
3. Do very basic motion detection, and save a video to SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR whenever motion is detected.

## Dependencies
* python 3
* python opencv2
* np
* dotenv

## Running the camera
1. Install the dependencies
```
pip install opencv-python python-dotenv numpy np
```
2. Set up your environment (you can specify SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR in a .env file if you want something more persistent than exporting the environment variable).
```
mkdir ~/security_camera_logs
export SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR=~/security_camera_logs
```
3. Run the program
```
python3 security_camera.py
```

## TODO
 - [ ] Allow the image save interval to be parameterized
 - [ ] Auto-detect available webcams
 - [x] Allow '~' or bash variables to be used in the SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR environment variable instead of requiring the full path.
 - [ ] Improve motion detection
 - [ ] Allow options to send images/videos via email, or save to AWS S3

Commit message:

Improved the motion detection to be less sensitive to noise. The current very basic algorithm is:   - Subtract one frame from another   - Convert the resulting diff to greyscale and normalize   - Perform two erode passes to filter out small noise   - Perform two dilate passes to re-inflate any surviving diffs   - Take the l2 norm of the resulting image. If < 1000, then motion was detected
Also added a generator function to return available webcams (currently only
tested in Ubuntu). This function examines `/dev` for any devices with 'video'
in the name, then gets the integer number at the end of the device name. These
should be the corresponding indexes used by opencv's VideoCapture function.
We then attempt to open the video capture, since some video devices in Ubuntu
are only providing camera metadata, rather than the actual video device. If we
successfully open the device, then return the associated VideoCapture object.

README.md, after:

# Webcam-based Security Camera
A basic security camera program using cheap webcams and opencv. Currently this camera will:
1. Save an image to the directory specified in the SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR environment variable once every X minutes, where X is defined by the environment variable IMAGE_SAVE_INTERVAL.
2. Save an image to SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR when the program ends.
3. Do very basic motion detection, and save a video to SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR whenever motion is detected.

## Dependencies
* python 3
* python opencv2
* np

## Running the camera
1. Install the dependencies
```
pip install opencv-python python-dotenv numpy np
```
2. Make any desired changes to the default config file
  * save_interval: the interval at which to save a snapshot of the security camera feed (in minutes).
  * log_dir: the directory in which the snapshots (and any motion-detected video) will be saved. This directory will be created if it does not already exist.
3. Run the program
```
python3 security_camera.py
```

## TODO
 - [x] Allow the image save interval to be parameterized
 - [X] Auto-detect available webcams
 - [x] Allow '~' or bash variables to be used in the SECURITY_CAMERA_LOG_DIR environment variable instead of requiring the full path.
 - [X] Improve motion detection
 - [ ] Allow options to send images/videos via email, or save to AWS S3
 - [ ] General code clean-up (abstract logical blocks into functions, add docstrings, etc)
 - [ ] Add unit tests
